So I'm going to need you to install.
Npm install -D
tailwind-css@ 3.1.8
postcss@8.4.18 and
autoprefixer@10.4.12.
You can also just copy this
directly from my notes, so
you don't have to type it word for word.
So, tailwind is exactly
what it's described to you.
It's the compiler that will actually
make you that minimum viable stylesheet.
Postcss is basically like Babel for CSS,
where it like takes one set of CSS and
transforms it into
a different kind of CSS.
It is just a transpiler for CSS.
And then autoprefixer is
exactly what it sounds like,
it basically trans-piles, modern CSS
to CSS that works in all browsers.
That's what autoprefixer does.
They make you version those independently
because that way postcss and autoprefixer
can release new things, and you don't
have to update necessarily tailwind, and
they don't have to track
that as a dependency either.
It allows you to maintain
control of your app
regardless of how often tailwind updates,
okay?
So now, we have this.
Now we need to start a tailwind project,
so
I'm going to say here
down in my terminal MPX.
What is it?
Tailwindcss, Init -p.
Okay, you'll see that this generates
two files for us, postcss and tailwind.
You can pretty well just ignore this.
Like this is just saying
this is a Tailwind project.
This is an autoprefixer project.
We will not touch this again.
But if you have any additional
configurations that you want for postcss,
that would go here, and
that's what the -P did.
The -P also made it so
that it generated the postcss for
us in addition to the tailwind config for
us as well.
>> How does Tailwind differ from
libraries like Bootstrap or Chakra UI?
>> Yeah.
So I am less familiar with Chakra, but
I can talk to at least speak to
bootstrap it's different than Bootstrap.
Bootstrap is a full design system, right?
If you build something with Bootstrap it
looks like a Bootstrap website which is
totally valid, right?
Like if you're building like internal web
apps where you don't really care that how
it looks as long as it looks usable and
nice.
Something like bootstrap or
material would be another good one.
Those like pre-made design
systems work amazingly for that.
Tailwind is not that.
Tailwind, it's not a design system.
It's a methodology for writing CSS.
So Tailwind's not gonna define
how your website looks,
it's gonna define how you write your CSS.
So you can build design systems
on top of Tailwind CSS, but
it has no opinions of how your
app is necessarily going to look.
So instead of writing CSS,
you're writing Tailwind, whereas with like
something like Bootstrap, you're just
putting CSS classes on things, and
it comes with like a premade
CSS bundle for you to use.
It's a CSS framework in that capacity.
That make sense?
Cool.
I imagine chakras the same,
similar anyway, but I again.
>> Component library?
>> Like material or
something like that okay, so
Chakra would be the same thing cool.
Okay, so we end up with this for
our tailwind config.
This little comment here is nice, actually
gives us the type so that if we start
typing something in here, it'll actually
give you like the autocomplete.
That's what this special comment
up here is for, it's for
VS Code to be able to
autocomplete things for us.
Okay, so
go to your style.css here in source.
Take all this very hard-earned
CSS that I wrote for you.
350 lines of it.
Wow, that's more than I thought.
Delete it.
Just delete all of it.
Fine, I'll be okay, just kidding,
it's not good CSS, that's fine.
We're gonna write tailwind @tailwind
components and add tailwind utilities.
This is all of the CSS that we're
going to have in our projects.
Everything else is going to be
written directly into the DOM.
Some of you might be annoyed that
VS Code is complaining about this.
If you want to get rid of this,
open your settings and let's see.
Actually do open user settings,
this one here in JSON.
And then what you're looking for
is you just wanna put a rule in here for.
What is it?
Css.lint.unknownAtRules, and
you can just put that to ignore.
So again, I'd Shift+Command+P or
Control+Shift+P Do preferences,
open user, User Settings JSON,
this one here, that'll open this file and
just put a line in here for this.
And then, you will no longer have
this complaining at you about that.
I don't really care.
So what, however you want to do,
this is just, like underlining a noisy.
Okay, the other thing I'm going to invite
you to do if you're using VS Code,
there is an extension for
Tailwind CSS IntelliSense.
This, go ahead and install that.
It's just very useful for
when you are doing a tailwind because it
will start auto completing things for you.
Okay, that should be, we should be
ready to go now any questions so
far about setting up tailwind?
If we run our project now,
it's going to look very ugly
because there's gonna be no CSS.
Yea, see it's just pictures of Luna and
text, but there's no style on anything.
So let's start writing some talent.
So let's go to App.jsx.
And, This first div right here.
Yeah, this one right here give it a class
name equal to P-0 and m-0.
And then, we're gonna give it
a style of equal to background.
And we'll give it a URL
of
http://pets-images.dev-apis.com/pets/wall-
paper.
You can do A, B or
C all of those will work.
So you should end up
with something like that,
and okay, so far so good.
So, a couple of things here.
What are these class names?
Well, again, Tailwind is atomic CSS.
We're putting just the bare minimum amount
of CSS, and we're going to be using just
classes to represent the CSS
that we would want to write.
So if you actually mouse
over this inner using
that IntelliSense VS Code extension
that I told you to install,
you'll see that p0 represents
padding p00 pixels.
You can probably guess what m.0
is gonna be then margin 0, right?
So this is saying I want on my
body of my application here
I want no padding and no margin.
This welcome to Tailwind CSS,
that's what this is,
it's just putting in utility classes for
all the CSS that you wanna write.
I'm sure right now you're either
thinking this is great or this is awful.
There's really,
very rarely much in between.
So let me just say that on one hand,
this is so fast to write,
I don't have to switch between CSS files.
I can just put stuff on
the go as I'm going.
It's very fast to like
prototype stuff really quickly.
So I use tailwind all the time.
When I just need to like get something
done and out the door as fast as I can,
Tailwind is great for
just being really fast.
You can imagine some of these class
names get long and gross, right?
You'll start having like 30
class names on one component.
It's a little weird, right?
You're gonna have to decide
what you think about that.
I'm gonna invite you to try it.
I'm gonna say if you're
really grossed out right now,
it's probably better than you think it is.
So just stick with me.
Questions so
far before we get more in depth on this?
Yeah.
>> Do you recommend the Tailwind
prettier plugin also?
I've never used it, but
that sounds like a lovely thing,
that seems like a great idea so like it'll
sort your classes for you automatically.
Yeah, that's awesome, all right?
Let's see what happens, I have no idea
what happens if we install this directly.
So Tailwind or npm install -D.
We already have prettier on this project.
Let's do prettier plugin, tailwindcss.
Okay.
So rather than you'd have, it looks like
you have to replace your prettier RC with.
JS file, I want you to call that
JS file prettier config.js
All right, try that now.
That works.
Okay.
So to sum up,
do npm install dash capital D prettier
dash plugin, tailwindcss like that?
I am currently on version 1013.
If that's something's not working for you,
try installing specifically that version.
Have a dot prettier RC file, you'll have
to delete that dot prettier RC file and
replace it with a prettier dot config.js
because it's going to require you to
import something.
And then just put this in there,
module dot exports equals plugins
require prettier plugin, tailwindcss.
Once you've done that.
Now for example if I do m.0 here
P0 because it has a certain order
that expects things to come in.
Notice as soon as I click save it
reorganizes though into some sort
of ascending or like some sort
of predictable order, right?
So thank you to friendly user
online that told me to do that.